# Tribble_XpertSm

Product Requirements 
This section is not intended to be an in-depth technical or functional requirement for XpertSiM.  Rather, this section is intended to provide the preliminary outline of what XpertSiM needs to have to effectively compete and win in the simulation space.   
XpertSiM should have two (2) modules.  The first module is Decision Modeler (DMM).  In this module, users can input various data elements to access modeling tools such as Monte Carlo, What If Analysis, Discounted Cash Flow, Net Present Value, Internal Rate of Returns, Present Value, Future Value, Risk Adjusted Analysis, Best Fit, and Optimization.   Most of these models are straightforward since there are formulas and required variables.  For the most part, MS Excel can generate several of these models.  The goal is to have these tools easily accessible to non-finance users, allowing them to create models with minimal effort quickly.  The exceptions are the Monte Carlo simulation as well as the Optimization model.  These are more advanced and would probably need a bit more work.  I think XpertSiM can benefit from these two modeling engines if they are available.  To my knowledge, we can leverage Python or R for Monte Carlo since there is a lot of writing on the net about using platforms for statistical modeling.  As we continue to develop XpertSiM, we will continually add additional simulations, such as pricing and supply chain.  Business leaders must make decisions on spending often.  In most scenarios, they must make investment/spending decisions between a few projects or investment opportunities, picking one or more that will maximize Returns on Investment (ROI) and Returns on Capital (ROC).  We need XpertSiM to be the tool they will use for their modeling needs.  As such, we need to be clean in the UI (but feature-rich) design and provide options to make this process easier. 
 
A quick note.  A user should be able to access the Decision Modeler inside of the Business Simulation Module.  A use case for this is if the user must make investment decisions on different projects – to determine which project would have the best payback or rate of return.  The user should be able to access the decision modeler and have the decision modeler perform some analysis.  The analysis can then be copied into the business simulator to save time from the user entering some of the repeated data.   


 
Alternatively, a user who is evaluating multiple investment options should be able to run the analysis natively in the business simulator module.  Then, they can just click (check) which decision they would like to invest and allocate the necessary investment dollars (or %) accordingly.
Decision Modeler Module (DMM) 
Let’s spend a few minutes talking through DMM.  Currently, MS Excel is a tool with many capabilities for modeling.  The problem is that most business leaders don’t know enough about Excel to set up the model.  We should build an interface with two settings – a quick modeling option and an advanced one.  The user will enter a few parameters in the quick modeling option, and DMM will generate one or more outputs quickly.  In the advanced option, the user will be asked to enter more data since the advance ‘tab’ or feature will have more robust/complex models.  In the quick model modeling tab, we may limit the model/formula to Present Value, Future Value, Discounted Cash Flow, Weighted Average Cost of Capital (WACC), Internal Rate of Return (IRR), Break-Even Analysis, Return on Equity, Return on Assets, Return on Investment and Leverage analysis.  We can give users different options in the advanced tab, including What-If Analysis, Optimization, Monte Carlo, Sensitivity Analysis, and Best Fit.  Additionally, advanced modeling can be used to forecast a proforma P&L provided some assumptions are made, including growth rate, inflation, currency exchange, etc. 
Regardless of what type of model a user wants to make, the user must be able to save the model and create multiple versions (or scenarios) of the same base model.  This will allow our tool to be deployed corporate-wide and enable users to use a ‘simple’, yet powerful tool to create a range of models.  Currently, most of these models can be generated from MS Excel. 
Business Simulation Module (BSM) 
The Business Simulation Module (BSM) must be the heart of XpertSiM.  Let’s talk through the various components of BSM. 
Common Terminologies 
•	XpertSiM – Name of the modeling/simulation platform. 
•	Business Simulation Module (BSM) – The simulation engine that will be the heart of XpertSiM.  BSM allows several types of inputs: 
o	Market Data Scrapping/Input (MDS/I) – This is the ability of XpertSiM to pull data from various data sources to create an autonomous or stagnant economy.  Post data import, BSM can model out a simulated economy where players will interact to make decisions. 
	The Autonomous Economy is a simulated economy that is evolving on the XpertSiM platform.  This is like a basic gaming engine.  It has concepts such as the Global Economy Modeler (GEM), Industry Economy Modeler (IEM), Regional Economy Modeler (REM), and Local Economy Modeler (LEM).   
•	GEM is the main economic engine.  This engine should pull data from various market outlook sources (see below) as the starting point.  From that, GEM can project what the simulated economy should look like while mirroring the different data points from the various market outlook sources.  The goal is not to adopt a particular market outlook framework.   Instead, we want to pull
•	market data and have those as the initial starting point.  GEM should then project out what those data should look like 3 – 5 years from the initial data set.  At this point, we are not trying to build a market forecasting tool. Instead, we are trying to pull data and use the data to create a simulated market where our client’s employees can work in.  That said, it should try to mirror the global economy components (not the economy itself), incorporating concepts such as inflations, exchange rate modifiers, and geopolitical events (and risks) that mirror the actual global economy.  Regional and even country-specific inflationary rates will be a component of GEM.  If we can pull country import tax data, that would be even better. 
•	IEM is a subset of the GEM.  It mirrors industries such as energy, manufacturing, consumer products, retail, banking and financial services, and technology.  Industry-relevant data should be gathered and prioritized (e.g. Oil & Gas or Energy, etc.).  IEM should be flexible with its data ingestion model.  As we work with new clients, they will likely share industry-specific forecast data with us.  We need the ability to quickly import the data into IEM as a baseline and model that data in our simulated economy. 
•	REM is a subset of GEM.  The changes to all the REM will add up to the change in GEM.  Note: REM should be customizable as part of the setup process.  Administrative/power users should be able to add and remove countries from the various regions and label the regions in the same manner our clients categorize them.  The countries within the REM will have their own ‘personality’.  In other words, there are social, political, and economical events that could impact a specific country but will not have as significant (or any) impact on neighboring countries.  Naturally, each country will have its own rules (this could be a pre-set or hard-coded feature) such as exchange rate, tariff, etc. as it relates to another country.  Think about the combination of countries that this would be involved.  In the first release, personalities should be general in nature.  Where this comes into play is when a player has operations in various geographies.  A disruption (created by the administrator or the AI) will have varying levels of impact on that country first, and then that region next before impacting the global economy. 
•	LEM is a modeler that is based on a country’s select drivers including GDP, GNP, inflation rate, the exchange rate (with other countries), tax rate, political stability index score, and global health index.  There could be other factors, but these parameters should be a good baseline.  In future releases, we may need to modify the data elements depending on whether there are other variables that are more impactful to the specific country. 
•	Players – a player is an entity that exists in the simulated economy.  A player can be a customer, a supplier, a market participant, or a governmental entity or agency.  For the first release (and potentially a few more releases), we should only consider customers, suppliers, and market participants as players in the simulated
•	economy.  In future releases, we should explore adding governmental entities since their actions can have significant ramifications for certain industries, countries, and just regional stability measures. 
o	Customers – Organizations (government entities and for-profit entities) that will make buying decisions based on their business strategy and overall values.  The customers will make these buying decisions based on their needs/requirements, financial situations as well as their view of how the economy will look (based on the market model).  A customer is typically controlled by an AI, but we will need to explore the options of having some customers managed by users.  In this context here, the government entities do not implement regulations that can alter the market dynamics.  The customer role can be controlled by users (students, administrators, or power users) or AI.   
o	Suppliers – Suppliers provide goods and services to the market, indirectly through market participants.  In our current framework, suppliers do not directly supply products and services to market.  In subsequent releases, we can evaluate this concept and see if it makes sense for suppliers to interact directly with the market.  The supplier role can be controlled by users (students, administrators, or power users) or AI. 
o	Market Participants – These are organizations that are the ‘sellers’ in the simulated economy.  There are 2 types of markets – close and dynamic.  A close market implies that the total number of market participants makes up 100% of the market share.  The dynamic market is where there are other market participants as well – including suppliers as well as other competitors.  These can be driven by AI or controlled by users.  The suppliers will be impacted by the market dynamics as well as the customers (and market participants).  In XpertSiM, we need the ability to create or auto-generate market participants without much setup.  The market participants will set up their strategy and will make investment decisions that will determine how they will look in the next cycle or round.  Once a market participant enters his decisions, he will have time to make changes until either all participants have entered their decisions or time expired for the data entry.  If the market participant fails to complete his decision, his remaining decisions will be made (based on parameters that have not been entered) for him based on his company’s strategy and priorities.  The customer role can be controlled by users (students, administrators, or power users) or AI.  Market participants can collaborate with other market participants, customers, and suppliers via internal emails or ‘chat’ but they have to make their decisions by the allotted time or else they will be locked out of the round. 
AI-Driven Dynamic Market Model (Autonomous Economy) 
This is an important aspect of BSM.  It needs to have an engine that incorporates select elements of the economy – even if the economy is fictitious.  The goal is not to simulate the actual economy.  At this point, we are not trying to build a market predictor/forecaster.  Rather, we want to load initial market data and have BSM model that data to create a simulated economy.  While the simulated market will evolve with future releases, it can start out with basic data such as Gross National Products (GNP), Gross Domestic Products (GDP), inflation data, currency exchange data, etc.  Sources that can be used to collect and simulate the data include the followings: 

•	International Momentary Fund (IMF) – www.inf.org 
•	Statista – www.statista.com 
•	World Bank (Global Economic Prospects) – www.worldbank.org 
•	Global Economic Outlook from the Conference Board – https://www.conference-board.org/topics/global-economic-outlook 
•	Congressional Budget Office – www.cbo.gov 
•	Knoema – www.knoema.com 
The listing above is an abbreviated list.  Essentially, the AI engine should be able to combine several forecasts and then simulate its own forecasts based on the various data that have been loaded.  The currency exchange rate for each country/currency; for example, should be modeled into the future.  To the extent possible, currency exchange rates should be dynamic – meaning that XpertSiM should continually poll the various industry sources for the most accurate information.  Each country should be given a political stability index.  This score should address the stability of the country. 
We need to come up with a way to either scrap the economic data or subscribe to a service that allows us to pull country-specific data for economic forecasting. 
As a part of the setup process, the administrator should be able to determine if he will use third-party forecasting data, AI-generated data, or just manually loaded data.  Preference is for API or other third-party integration solutions and AI-generated data.  Monte Carlo could be a good tool to generate economic forecasting data. 
The political stability index (www.theglobaleconomy.com or other sources) should be incorporated into our Market Model.    The information can also be pulled from the World Bank.  Refer to GovData360 for access to various data science tools.  Also, see ResearchGate’s data (pulled from World Bank) or Maplecroft’s Government Stability Index.  Another factor that should be considered is the Health Index.  See GHS Index (Global Health Security Index), RCG Health Index, Bloomberg’s Global Health Index, etc. 
The indices above will be used by the AI (or Administrator) to generate market disruption events.  These events could include a political coup, virus, war, election outcome, terrorism, and other geopolitical events.  Each type of event will have local as well as regional and ultimately global impact though the scale of global impact will vary.  If a market participant has operations in areas that have these disruptions, it will have consequences for their overall business.  The frequency and impact of these disruptors will be based on the government stability indices as well as global health indices. 
The Customers 
In today’s economy, retaining existing customers while developing strategies to win new customers is critical for any organization’s longevity.  XpertSiM needs to support two types of approach – Business-to-Business (B2B) and Business-to-Customers (B2C).  The first release of XpertSiM should be focused on B2B-oriented businesses.  There are a few factors that go into consideration for each customer buying decision.  They are listed below.  Please note the list is not exhaustive. 
•	Price 
•	Quality (Product & Services) 
•	Technical fit 
•	Warranty 
•	Client Services 
•	Strategic Partner 
•	Availability 
•	Contract Flexibility (Terms & Conditions) 
•	Performance Clauses 
•	Customer references 
•	Brand awareness 
•	Global reach (see also supply chain) 
Often, customers will make purchasing decisions based on a scoring system that will include one or more of the items listed above.  Another complication is that some competitors will form alliances, partnerships, or joint ventures to leverage each organization’s strength to win deals.  Additionally, customers can also be competitors as well. 
In XpertSiM, we need the ability to quickly create customers.  The customers should be the simulation users as well as AI-controlled entities or organizations.  A quick way to set up customers is to input the various parameters into XpertSiM and let XpertSiM generate the rest of the customer profiles.  Each customer will then make decisions based on their respective profiles.  AI-driven customers should be able to make decisions quickly. 
While there could be an unlimited number of customers, the number is much more limited in the B2B world.  As such, we should consider the impact of design, cost, and timeline to determine the best course forward. 
It must be noted that the customers will also make buying decisions based on their view of the market outlook.  We can set up an auto generator to weigh the customer interest and market outlook in making buying decisions.   
The Market Participants 
Market participants are the primary actors in XpertSiM.  For the first release, the market participants will be the ‘primary businesses’ that will be managed by one or more users and bots.   In future releases, we can add customers and suppliers as market participants as well.  The main point is that we need to have AI/ML act as market participants if needed.  These market participants will have their own unique strategies regarding how they plan on engaging the market.  Provided below are a few strategies that market participants can have.  Note:  Advantexe has 3 strategies: Cost focus, Customer focus, and Innovation focus. 
•	Cost focus – We want to be the lowest cost provider 
•	Market share focus – We want to win market share 
•	Customer focus – We want to be known for our client/customer services 
•	Innovation focus – We want to be known as the most innovative organization in our segment/market 
•	Solution focus – We want to be known as the most creative solution provider in our industry 
•	Supply Chain focus / Global reach focus – We are known for an expansive network – we can deliver our products to any corner of the globe 
•	Value focus – We are not focused on price; rather, we are focused on delivering high value to our customers 
•	Quality focus – We want to have the most reliable products in our industry 
•	Best people – We want to be known as an organization that has the best talent development and management program 
The players in the simulated market will have different strategies depending on several factors.  Predominantly, however, the biggest factor is the market position.  In other words, a player will develop and implement strategies depending on how it perceives its market position (strength) to be as well as its perceived return on investment (or earning per share).  
As such, our modeling concept should allow for short-, medium-, and long-range strategy setting.  This should be 1 year, 2 – 3 years, and 3+ years.  We can also allow users to configure the time horizon if there are no overlaps. 
At the beginning of the simulation, the user-controlled players (specifically market participants) will be provided with three years of financial data (via income statements, balance sheets, and statements of cash flows).  These financial statements can be actual financial statements or AI/system-generated financial statements.   
During the setup process, market participants should have their respective organizational construct mapped without limitation.  For example, if a market participant has operations in 20 regions and each region has 10 – 15 countries, those should be set up (quick setup or advanced setup).  Additionally, each market participant can have multiple product/service lines in each market.  Each region/country and or product line should have its financials presented after each quarter.  To simplify the setup process, we will limit manufacturing plants, distribution centers, etc. to the country level (and not state or even city level). 
Market Concepts 
There will be 2 market concepts that will be adopted by XpertSiM – The Close Market and Dynamic Market. 
In a close market, the number of market participants aggerates to the entirety of the market.  For example, assume that there are 5 market participants with the following characteristics: 
•	Market Participant #1 – Industry: Oil & Gas, Annual Revenue: $200MM 
•	Market Participant #2 – Industry: Manufacturing, Annual Revenue: $325MM 
•	Market Participant #3 – Industry: Oil & Gas, Annual Revenue: $100MM 
•	Market Participant #4 – Industry: Healthcare, Annual Revenue: $100MM 
•	Market Participant #5 – Industry: Oil & Gas, Annual Revenue: $700M 
•	n this example, the total global market is $1425MM (MP1 + MP2 + MP3 + MP4 + MP5).  The Oil & Gas Market is, however, $1000MM.  This represents the entire market.  Customers and suppliers in the Oil & Gas industry will respond very differently in this market versus in a dynamic market.  With fewer market participants, the customers and suppliers don’t have a lot to choose from.  As a result, they will more than likely value relationships, etc. over just getting the cheapest products possible.  The close market is a zero-sum scenario.  For a team to move up, other teams must suffer or underperform. 
•	In a dynamic market, the number of market participants is determined by several factors including the overall market current and forecasted size, the amount of capital that is available, the maturity of the market, and revenue potential.  
•	Assume that each class or cohort has 25 participants.  Let’s say that each participant/student can represent a market participant.  The reality is that we will probably just group people into teams – creating for example 5 teams.  Let’s go back to the original scenario where there are 25 students.  In essence, each student can run his/her own company – making it a total of 25 companies.  For the first phase (or release), these should all be market participants in the sense that they are competing – both directly and indirectly.  In future phases of software releases, we can have some of the 25 students act as suppliers, others as market participants while the rest can be customers.   
•	In a dynamic market, there may be other market participants that are outside of the 25 that is controlled by the students or AI.  The challenge is coming up with the number of market participants that will make sense – they need to all aggregate to the total market size.  In the dynamic market, the market participants may or may not compete directly with each other.  In the whole market, they do, but the competition is not a zero-sum game.  The market will continue to grow (or shrink) and that will impact the economics of each participant.   
•	The Workflow – Behind the Scenes 
•	The dynamic market model should pull data from various third-party sources to establish a baseline which then can be used to forecast its own market projections.  In the ideal context, the dynamic market should be autonomous and evolve over time.  Industry-relevant data should be loaded into XpertSiM, and AI should take over.  In addition to the industry data, political stabilization, and health index data should be incorporated.  Additionally, interest rate data as well as exchange rate information should be downloaded and used as the initial inputs to the simulation.  
 
XpertSiM to develop industry models for universities and not-for-profit organizations.  Regardless, the dynamic market framework in XpertSiM is foundational to the success of the simulation since customers, suppliers, and market participants will use the dynamic market model to determine the strategies as well as quarter-by-quarter decisions.  The AI engine must be sophisticated enough to leverage concepts like Monte Carlo, Sensitivity Analysis, etc. to make decisions.  The AI engine that drives the market must be different from the AI engine that makes decisions for customers, suppliers, and market participants.  In other words, the non-market AI should not have an advantage over live users (unless the live users make poor decisions across the board).   
During the setup process, the AI should choose randomly choose strategies based on strengths and weaknesses.  The strengths and weaknesses should also be generated.  If possible, we should allow the market AI to project/forecast market sizes.  The methodology should be based on the various industry data. 
During the simulation, AI-driven suppliers, customers, and market participants should be able to make decisions quickly so as not to slow down the simulation.  The trick is on the customers since they will have to give market signals on what they will spend which in turn will give market participants and suppliers the opportunity to react.   
After each round, results will be provided and a new “AI generated” market forecast for the upcoming time horizon (rolling five years).   The new market forecast will include events that have occurred during the quarters – i.e., new government, wars, forest fires, hurricanes (force majeure), disease outbreaks, etc.  These ‘market disruptors’ will impact the local market first and will have impacts on other markets depending on their magnitude, etc.   
Each market participant will be provided with a performance dashboard as well as their financial statements.  The users should be able to easily generate pro forma for subsequent periods and save those pro forma models.  There are several setup options for this.  First, each market participant will be shown his dashboard and associated P&L (consisting of an income statement, balance sheet, and statement of cash flow).  Additionally, competitors’ data as well as overall market data will also be shown.  This will also include full P&Ls as well as a ‘market outlook’.  Not sure how we should do this, but if there is a way for an AI to generate market outlooks based on market data and have that market outlook summarized, it would be very helpful. 
The market participants will then have opportunities to analyze data and provide inputs for the next round.  At some point in time, we should have AI generate a ‘new’ competitor that is a disruptive force.  In a scenario like this, we can have market participants decide on what their strategies would be regarding this new market entrant.  They can either license the technology, buy the new market entrant, ignore the market entrant, or form a joint venture with the new entrant.  Each option will have its associated cost, the timeline for implementation, the timeline for results, and an analysis of the potential payback model.  Decisions that a market participant can make in each round revolve around key parameters including: 
•	Decision to invest in sales & operations (regional and local country budget); 
o	Grow market share 
o	Improve operating margin 
•	Decision to invest in the global supply chain (build or buy decisions); 
•	R&D Investments; 
•	Decision to expand into new geographies. 
•	Decision to expand into new markets (not needed in the first release);  
•	Investment in developing its people; 
•	Merger & Acquisitions;  
•	Debt repayment & Share buy Back and  
•	Strategic alliances & partnerships. 
In addition to these decisions, participants will have to decide on how to allocate funds as well as how to finance their investments.  Debt covenants should pull in market rates.

At the beginning of the simulation, each market participant will be given his respective company’s financials for the past three years.  The financials would represent AI-generated P&Ls for the last 3 years.  Additionally, each participant will be given a view of the current market (based on the relevant industry) as well as a market outlook for the next 3 – 5 years.  The market outlook should provide comprehensive data such as global as well as industry-specific outlooks.  Each participant will have a chance to view his organization’s strengths and weaknesses (AI generated if possible) as well as competitors’ strengths and weaknesses.  These can be manually input but it would be nice for the AI to generate these numbers.  Also, market participants should not start out the same, although they should be within the 15 – 25% range of one another regarding the market size.  We should be able to adjust these parameters – meaning that we can adjust market participants individually or in masse.  We need the ability to rapidly scale the simulation – setting up 5, 10, or 100 market participants without much effort by allowing the AI to assist.  At some point, we should not have a limit on the number of market participants.  Also, market participants should be able to interact with each other via the simulation platform.  This is important because market participants can decide to collaborate and share technologies, etc., to grow their business.  Additionally, when participants negotiate, they should have their decisions finalized via contracts.  This includes contract arrangement type, terms & conditions, etc. 
XpertSiM should be developed in releases.  In the first release, the customers or buyers should be driven by AI.  In subsequent phases, the customers/buyers, as well as suppliers, should be driven by users (as an option).  Again, customers, market participants, and sellers should be able to chat with each other during the simulation and make decisions to work together (or not) within a specific timeline.  If the parties do not make decisions in the specific timeline, they can either pay a ‘penalty’ or have the simulation process whatever information they have provided up to the time that the time expires. 
We need to have the flexibility to set learning objectives by rounds.  For example, the first three rounds should test a user’s ability to interpret financial data to make decisions.  Subsequent rounds could add complexities such as investment portfolio optimization, product development, alliances, risk management, contract negotiation, JVs, alliances, etc. 

